>> Evan: So
this outer component basically becomes,
it doesn't render anything of it's own,
right?
Which is interesting, like, we can do more
things in this component actually, right?
So this leads us into the next topic which
is pretty common in the React world.
It's a concept called
higher-order components, okay?
So it sounds pretty fancy how many of you
have heard of like, high order functions?
Yeah.
So,
in functional programming you have this
sort of, you have a original function,
you can take that function compose it
to return a higher order function.
Which does additional things, but it still
utilizes the original function internally.
But that's pretty abstract, so
let's try to think about what
a high order component could be in a,
in a more practical case.
So let's imagine we have a,
let's go into 2.3, and
we can see that
>> Evan: We have this Avatar component.
This is a very,
very simple component in that its sole
responsibility is rendering some template.
But in real word use cases,
you might have additional things.
For example,
you have styling associated with it.
You have a more complex styling structure.
But eventually you want to hide this
all away, abstract the inside of
this nicely reusable avatar
component that you can use anywhere.
And then, when you use it,
the downside is,
this avatar component is not that smart.
It expects you to give this full URL to
the image that it should be displaying
which isn't super nice.
Like, in some cases, for
example, you are working with a system
where you only have the user name.
And then you need to call an API to figure
out what the avatar URL for that user is.
Then eventually you need to pass
it to this avatar component.
If you put that logic inside a parent
component that is using avatar,
you're essentially polluting this parent
component with some logic that it should
not really be concerned about with.
Right, and this logic is going to
be re-used in a lot places in your
app because you don't want to be
always passing a full, long URL.
You want to just, what you want is
something like this, a smart component.
All you need to give it is the username.
And it figures out what the URL for
this avatar should be and
then pass it into this internal
avatar component for you.
So this smart avatar is
essentially a component that
abstracts away some repetitive logic,
it separates
that from both the parent context and
this inner component.
So a very dedicated
piece of responsibility.
This inner component is now very,
very dumb.
It doesn't care about any logic
it just takes some props and
render it outer context is also
unaware of anything going on.
All it knows is I use this component.
Give it a user name.
It will do the right thing.
So this is a very nice
encapsulation mechanism.
It's like composing different layers
of responsibility with components.
Which is why this pattern has become
very popular in the react world,
because naturally, random functions
are closer to functional programming and
makes these patterns shine.
But because Vue can use random functions,
so
there's really nothing preventing you
from applying the same technique in
a Vue context if you really
enjoy this kind of composition.
So, let's take a look at our exercise.
We have a mocked API function here.
All it does is it takes a username and
gives you back an avatar
URL inside a callback.
And it fakes it with a 500 millisecond,
delay.
And it always give you the same
URL which is the view logo.
So it doesn't really matter
what username you passed in.
It's just for faking an API call.
And now we have this
base avatar component.
Okay.
And then we have this
smart avatar component
which we use like this
inside our roots is this.
We've setup everything else for you.
What you need to implement this
function called withAvatarURL.
This is something more like so
called component enhancer or
if you enable something like decorators.
You can actually do something like this,
which uses this function as a decorator so
you don't have to call
this something like that.
But eventually what
this does is it returns
another component which
is here at smart avatar.
So it's essentially
returning another component.
And that component,
this smart avatar component,
should be internally
rendering this at its root.
But it should maintain
the logic of taking its
username prompt, go to the API,
find out the avatar for the, in the URL.
Pass it on to the inner avatar component.
And also between the time where you're
sending out the API and waiting for
to come back you should
be rendering the inner avatar
component with the placeholder image.